Written Assignment Unit 5

After reviewing this week’s readings, assess your readiness to be a self-directed learner. In your response, make sure to address the following:

What is a self-directed learner?

What are the essential aspects of self-directed learning?

What are your two biggest strengths as a student?

How will these strengths help you become a self-directed learner?

What are your two biggest weaknesses as a student?

How do these affect your readiness to be a self-directed learner?

Describe at least three strategies to become a more self-directed learner.

How will you hold yourself accountable for your growth as a learner?

Written Assignment Requirements:

Your written assignment should be submitted in a Word document (or compatible program - not that .pages is not an acceptable file format) and should be at least 1-2 pages in length (but not more than 4 pages), double-spaced with 1-inch margins, and written in Times New Roman size 12 font.

You should provide a word count at the end of your written assignment.

Cite any reference(s) you use in the preparation of your essay using proper APA format.
For help with APA citations, please refer to the UoPeople APA Tutorials in the LRC.

Written Assignment Peer Assessment:

In the unit following the submission of your written assignment, you will peer assess three (3) of your classmates’ assignments according to the instructions found in the Assessment Form. During this peer assessment period, you are expected to provide details in the feedback section of the Assessment Form, indicating why you awarded the grade that you did to your peer. The written assignment grade is comprised of a combination of your submission (90%) and your peer assessments (10%).

Written Assignment Peer Assessment Rubric:

For this assignment, your peers will be evaluating your work with the following criteria.

Does the student define self-directed learning?
Does the student describe essential aspects of self-directed learners?
Does the student identify two personal strengths as a self-directed learner?
Does the student describe how personal strengths help them become a self-directed learner?
Does the student identify two personal weaknesses as a self-directed learner?
Does the student describe how personal weaknesses affect their readiness to become a self-directed learner?
Does the student describe at least three strategies to become a self-directed learner?
Does the student describe how they will hold themselves accountable for their growth as a learner?

Did the student’s paper include these formatting elements:

at least 1-2 pages in length
double-spaced
1-inch margins
written in Times New Roman 12 font
include a word count