Written Assignment Unit 4

Instructions for submission:

For this week’s Written Assignment, you have a chance to practice your critical thinking skills. Read the Case Study Between a Rock and a Hard Place [PDF] and write an analysis. The goal is to demonstrate critical thinking in your analysis; you do not need to be a sustainability or business expert to critically analyze this case study. In your analysis, be sure to include:

A summary of the issue. Briefly, what are the key facts of the case study?
Use of at least one critical thinking strategy or tool to analyze the situation and highlight key facts. Be sure to specifically identify the tool you select and describe its use.
A recommendation to resolve the situation, along with reasons why you recommend this solution.

Written Assignment Requirements:

Your written assignment should be submitted in a Word document (or similar program) and should be at least 2-3 pages in length (but not more than 5 pages), double-spaced with 1-inch margins, and written in Times New Roman size 12 font.  You should provide a word count at the end of your written assignment. Cite any reference(s) you use in the preparation of your essay using proper APA format. Refer to the UoPeople APA Tutorials in the LRC for help in APA citations.

Written Assignment Peer Assessment:

In the unit following the submission of your written assignment, you will peer assess three (3) of your classmates’ assignments according to the instructions found in the Assessment Form. During this peer assessment period, you are expected to provide details in the feedback section of the Assessment Form, indicating why you awarded the grade that you did to your peer. The written assignment grade is comprised of a combination of your submission (90%) and your peer assessments (10%).

Written Assignment Peer Assessment Rubric:

For this assignment, your peers will be evaluating your work with the following criteria.

Did the student provide a clear summary of the issue?
Did the student identify at least one critical thinking tool to analyze the case study?
Did the student describe the use of at least one critical thinking tool?
Did the student recommend a resolution?
Did the student explain their reasoning for the resolution?

Did the student’s paper include these formatting elements:

at least 2-3 pages in length
double-spaced
1-inch margins
written in Times New Roman 12 font
include a word count