Discussion Forum Unit 7

You are required to submit a substantial response to the Discussion Assignment, which will be posted by your instructor in the Discussion Forum below. A substantial response is one that stays on topic and fully addresses the assignment in a clear, concise, and meaningful manner.

Discussion Requirements:

Your Discussion should be at least 250 words in length, but not more than 500 words. Use APA citations and references for the textbook and any other sources used; you should use at least 1 APA citation and reference, but you can use more if needed. Refer to the UoPeople APA Tutorials in the LRC for help with APA citations.

Discussion Responses:

It is your responsibility to respond to three classmates by providing comments, asking questions, or having a conversation about their main post. Feedback should be appropriate, meaningful, and helpful. For instance refer to how your own experience supports/contradicts the opinions developed by your peers. If you think they are too general or not rooted enough in personal experience, you may also ask for more detailed examples supporting these opinions. In particular make sure that the examples provided are properly referenced and that you are able to access them. Overall, your comments should contribute positively to the conversation by broadening or clarifying it. Feedback should be at least 3-4 complete sentences (at least 100 words).

Rating Discussions:

After posting an appropriate, meaningful, and helpful response to your three classmates, you must rate their posts on a scale of 0 (unsatisfactory) to 10 (Excellent). The rating scores are anonymous; therefore, do NOT mention in your remarks the separate rating score you will give the peer. The instructor is the only person who knows which score matches the comment given to a peer. Some classmates may worry that some peers will not provide a fair rating, or be unable to provide accurate corrections for grammar or other errors. It is the instructor’s responsibility to ensure fairness and accuracy.

10 (A) - Excellent, substantial, relevant, insightful, enriching, and stimulating contribution to the discussion. Also, uses external resources to support position where required and/or applicable.
8 - 9 (B) - Good, quite substantial and insightful, but missing minor details which would have otherwise characterized it as an excellent response.
6 - 7 (C) - Satisfactory insight and relevance, but required some more information and effort to have warranted a better rating.
4 - 5 (D) - Limited insight and relevance of the material; more effort and reflection needed to have warranted a satisfactory grading.
0 - 3 (F) - Unsatisfactory insight/relevance or failure to answer the question, reflecting a poor or limited understanding of the subject matter and/or the guidelines of the question.

Here are some questions to consider as we think about the feedback and rating to give our classmates:

Did the peer respond to everything asked by the assignment prompt?
Was the peer’s overall response organized and logical? Was it easy to follow and smooth?
Was it easy to understand the ideas the student was trying to communicate, or did you have to make assumptions to make sense out of what the peer wrote?
Did the peer use their own words, or if they borrowed from somewhere else, did they give credit to the source they used?
Were there consistent errors in grammar and punctuation that made it hard to understand or make sense out of the writing?

If at any time you suspect that a post in this Discussion Forum violates UoPeople's rules regarding plagiarism and/or any aspect of UoPeople’s Academic Code of Conduct, please notify your instructor immediately.

Remember that your instructor will be reviewing responses, ratings, and comments - and will adjust ratings if he/she believes that they do not seem warranted or supportable.

Assignment:

Stress, both good and bad, is a part of life. In the discussion forum discuss the following:

Why is stress management important? How has stress affected your life?
Identify three stress management techniques you are going to use to decrease your stress levels. How can you apply these strategies to your life? How will these strategies help you manage your stress?