Programming Assignment
In this assignment, you will write a program that asks the user a quiz question and prompts them for an answer until they get the question correct. This program will be the basis for future Programming Assignments in this course.

These instructions assume you are using the Eclipse IDE on your own computer. You may use a different Java environment as long as you can provide your Java code and screenshots for your assignment submission.

Download the Unit 2 Programming Assignment instructions.

Upload the following for your Programming Assignment submission.

Quiz.java
Screenshot showing the input dialog with the quiz question
Screenshot showing the message dialog for the correct answer
Screenshot showing the message dialog for a valid but incorrect answer
Screenshot showing the message dialog for an invalid answer
Your assignment will be graded by your peers using the following criteria. 

Does the submission include the file "Quiz.java"?
Does the file include a public class called "Quiz" with a public static method called "main"?
Does the main method have one or more String assignment statements that create a multiple-choice question String?
Does the main method have a String assignment statement that records the answer to the quiz question, where the question is an argument to the method "JOptionPane.showInputDialog"?
Does the main method convert the answer String using the "toUpperCase" method?
Does the main method display a message indicating that the answer is correct when the answer matches a particular String ("A", "B", "C", "D", or "E")?
Does the main method display a message indicating that the answer is incorrect when the answer matches particular Strings ("A", "B", "C", "D", or "E", but not the correct choice)?
Does the main method display a message indicating that the answer is invalid when the answer does not match any of the expected Strings ("A", "B", "C", "D", or "E")?
Does the main method continue to ask the quiz question until the answer is deemed correct?