Programming 1 – CS 1102:
Learning Materials
Get Ready For Your College Courses
To best prepare for your future studies, please review the below preparation resources. We encourage you to use the time before starting your first term, to get a taste of the topics of your upcoming courses. There’s no better time to start than now! Good luck with your studies!

 

Learn Programming 1
Course Overview

In this course, we will use the Java programming language. Java is a relatively new language, having been introduced in 1995. In the years since its introduction, it has become one of the most important languages for real application development. It is a very versatile language. Java can be used to write regular desktop applications and to make “applets” that can appear on Web pages. Many complex interactive Web sites are written in Java, and it can be used to write applications for many types of mobile phones. Even high-performance scientific programming has been done in Java.

 

Preparation Resources
Introduction to Programming Using Java, Version 7.0 June 2011, David J. Eck, Hobart and William Smith Colleges. Available from http://math.hws.edu/javanotes.
This course is augmented with lecture notes and assignments derived from the course “Introduction to Programming in Java” by Evan Jones, Adam Marcus, and Eugene Wu from MIT Open Courseware website at the following URL: http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-092-introduction-to-programming-in-java-january-iap-2010/lecture-notes/
What’s New in Java 8 – An unofficial guide to Java and JDK 1.8, June 2015, Adam L. Davis. An online version of the book can be found at the following URL: https://leanpub.com/whatsnewinjava8/read.
Programming 1 -Course Schedule and Topics:
This course will cover the following topics in eight learning sessions, with one Unit per week. The Final Exam will take place during Week/Unit 9 (UoPeople time).

 

Week 1: Unit 1 – Introduction to Programming, Names, and Things

Week 2: Unit 2 – Repetitions

Week 3: Unit 3 – Branching

Week 4: Unit 4 – Subroutines, Packages, and JavaDoc

Week 5: Unit 5 – Object Oriented Programming

Week 6: Unit 6 – Inheritance, Polymorphism, and Interfaces … Oh My!

Week 7: Unit 7 – Introduction to GUI programming

Week 8: Unit 8 – Arrays

Week 9: Unit 9 – Final Exam