Overview
Unit 9: Final Exam Overview

The Final Exam period lasts four days during Week/Unit 9. It begins on Thursday 28 October at 12:05 AM UoPeople time (GMT -5) and ends Sunday at 11:55 PM, UoPeople time (GMT -5). You are responsible for being aware of the official UoPeople clock (located in the upper left-hand corner of every course), and accounting for your local time zone or +1/-1 hour discrepancies due to Daylight Saving Time.

During this four-day access period, you may choose to begin any Final Exam, for any course, at any time. However, it is highly recommended that you attempt all of your exams as early as possible, and not leave them for the last few hours of the access period. Starting your exams early will adequately allow for any communication or technical support, if needed.

Once you begin taking a Final Exam, you will be allowed only one attempt and there will be a time limit. The exam clock cannot be paused while the exam is in progress. Therefore, it is important that you be in an environment free from disturbance or interruption, and that you complete any errands or other necessary actions before beginning an exam.

Please note - since there is plenty of time and opportunity allotted over the course of four days for resolving both technical and non-technical issues, there will be no make-up exams allowed.

The Final Exam is administered entirely online and is a fully computer-graded activity. The exam grade will not automatically appear in the gradebook right away, as it will take a few days for your instructor to analyze the results. The exam grade will appear in the gradebook by the end of Week/Unit 9, and final course grades will appear in the gradebook by the following week.

If you have any questions, comments, or concerns regarding the Final Exam, please be sure to contact your program advisor as soon as possible.

Exam Preparation & Procedures:

You are responsible for adequately preparing for the Final Exam by reviewing all course lessons and materials, and asking necessary questions from your peers and instructor. If a Review Quiz is provided in Unit 9, it is highly recommended that you take it in order to better understand what you should review and study.

During the exam, you may select answers and navigate freely through the exam pages by clicking the "Save Without Submitting" button at the bottom of each page. Using this button, you will be able to re-visit pages, and change your answers before you are ready to submit the exam. The order in which you answer the questions on the exam is entirely up to you. It is recommended that you browse through all of the questions before answering them, as this will allow you to first get through the material you know well, before thinking about the questions that are more difficult for you. 

After you have double-checked your work and are satisfied with all of your answers, please go ahead and click the "Submit All And Finish" button. You will NOT be able to go back and make any changes after submitting your exam, so please do NOT click this button until you are sure you want to do so.

Please remember to keep careful track of your time, and keep an eye out on the exam countdown clock as well. If you are in the middle of your exam when the time limit ends, your exam will be automatically submitted for you by Moodle, with the answers you have currently selected. Again, you will NOT be able to go back and make any changes if this happens.

Exam Technical Requirements & Support:

To ensure maximum compatibility and reliability, it is highly recommended that you use the most recent version of Mozilla Firefox when taking your exam. You are responsible for making adequate arrangements to be on a reliable computer with a reliable Internet connection during the exam. Furthermore, you should test out the computer and browser ahead of time, and ensure it has no technical issues that might hinder you during the exam period.

If you experience a technical problem during the exam, please email support@uopeople.edu and also contact your program advisor immediately.

Academic Integrity:

Please note - you must work on the Final Exam independently, with no assistance from or collaboration with other individuals, and without using any additional materials that have not been specifically permitted by your instructor. If you suspect that a student is cheating on his/her Final Exam, or otherwise violating UoPeople's Academic Code of Conduct during the exam period, please notify your program advisor immediately.

In keeping with University of the People's Academic Code of Conduct, any conduct that interferes with the quality of the educational experience at UoPeople is not allowed and may result in disciplinary action, such as course failure, probation, suspension, or dismissal. For more information on this topic, please review the section titled "Academic Integrity And The Disciplinary Process" in the University Catalog.