Written Assignment Unit 2

Instructions for submission:

Using your own words, answer each of the following questions:

What is peer assessment, and why do we use it at University of the People?
What are the benefits of peer assessment?
What are the challenges of giving peer feedback in peer assessment?
What are the challenges of receiving peer feedback in peer assessment?
What strategies will you use to peer assess written assignments? How will you assess discussion assignments?

Written Assignment Requirements:

Your written assignment should be submitted in a Word document (or similar program) and should be at least 1-2 pages in length, double-spaced with 1-inch margins, and written in Times New Roman size 12 font.  You should provide a word count at the end of your written assignment. Cite any reference(s) you use in the preparation of your essay using proper APA format. Refer to the UoPeople APA Tutorials in the LRC for help with APA citations.

Written Assignment Peer Assessment:

In the unit following the submission of your written assignment, you will peer assess three (3) of your classmates’ assignments according to the instructions found in the Assessment Form. During this peer assessment period, you are expected to provide details in the feedback section of the Assessment Form, indicating why you awarded the grade that you did to your peer. The written assignment grade is comprised of a combination of your submission (90%) and your peer assessments (10%).

Written Assignment Peer Assessment Rubric:

For this assignment, your peers will be evaluating your work with the following criteria:

Did the student accurately define peer assessment?
Did the student describe why peer assessment is used at UoPeople?
Did the student describe the benefits of peer assessment?
Did the student describe several challenges for giving feedback in peer assessment?
Did the student describe several challenges for receiving feedback in peer assessment?
Did the student describe how they will peer assess written assignments?
Did the student describe how they will assess discussion posts?

Did the student’s paper include these formatting elements:

at least 1-2 pages in length
double-spaced
1-inch margins
written in Times New Roman 12 font
include a word count