Learning Journal Unit 5

Reflection Topic: Intrinsic versus extrinsic motivation

Describe an example of when you were extrinsically motivated by something.

What was your goal and what motivated you?

Describe an example of when you were intrinsically motivated by something.

What was your goal and what motivated you?

Based on your examples, explain the difference between intrinsic motivation and extrinsic motivation.

Was one more effective?

Be sure to reflect on how each type of motivation made you feel.

Finally, based on what you have learned about motivation, describe what motivates you to learn.

Are you an intrinsically motivated learner or an extrinsically motivated learner?

Why?

Be sure that your Learning Journal entry is a minimum of 300 words (but not more than 500 words).

APA Exercise:

Every week in your learning journal for Online Education Strategies, you will practice APA format. For the past 4 weeks, we have practiced how to cite and reference different kinds materials – books, articles, website, and videos. While there are other kinds of materials that can be cited and referenced, most will be very similar to what you have already learned.

This week, we are going to change our exercises to focus on how to quote and how to paraphrase. Go back to the webpage you found for our Week 2 APA exercise. Then, complete the following exercise:

What was the full reference for the website you found for the Week 2 APA exercise? (If your instructor gave you feedback on how to correct your reference, be sure to write the correct reference this week.)

What was the in-text citation for the website you found for the Week 2 APA exercise? (If your instructor gave you feedback on how to correct your citation, be sure to write the correct citation this week.)

Find a sentence about water pollution in your webpage, and copy and paste it here.

Take the sentence from #3, and using the APA rule for short quotations, put the sentence in quotation marks while adding an APA in-text citation at the end.

Re-read the sentence from #3, and re-write the sentence in your own words while adding an APA in-text citation at the end. (This is called paraphrasing.)

Note: If you are struggling, try reviewing the UoPeople APA tutorials in the LRC.

Learning Journal Rubric:

The rubric detailing how you will be graded for this assignment can be found within the unit's assignment on the main course page.