Discussion Forum Unit 2

You are required to submit a substantial response to the Discussion Assignment, which will be posted by your instructor in the Discussion Forum below. A substantial response is one that stays on topic and fully addresses the assignment in a clear, concise, and meaningful manner. If your instructor requires a specific word count, it will be stated in the assignment.

After you respond to the assignment, you are then required to both give a rating and also leave a significant comment (3-4 complete sentences) to at least three (3) of your peers' responses, in order to receive full credit. Rate only the substantial responses that contribute to the promotion of the discussion, and not the comments of your peers.

Please review and follow the guidelines below for assessing your peer's responses to the Discussion Assignment.

Discussion Forum Rating Guidelines:

10 (A) - Excellent, substantial, relevant, insightful, enriching, and stimulating contribution to the discussion. Also, uses external resources to support position where required and/or applicable.
8 - 9 (B) - Good, quite substantial and insightful, but missing minor details which would have otherwise characterized it as an excellent response.
6 - 7 (C) - Satisfactory insight and relevance, but required some more information and effort to have warranted a better rating.
4 - 5 (D) - Limited insight and relevance of the material; more effort and reflection needed to have warranted a satisfactory grading.
0 - 3 (F) - Unsatisfactory insight/relevance or failure to answer the question, reflecting a poor or limited understanding of the subject matter and/or the guidelines of the question.

If at any time you suspect that a post in this Discussion Forum violates UoPeople's rules regarding plagiarism and/or any aspect of UoPeople’s Academic Code of Conduct, please notify your instructor immediately.

Remember that your instructor will be reviewing responses, ratings, and comments - and will adjust ratings if he/she believes that they do not seem warranted or supportable.

Assignment:

Create your own Python code examples that demonstrate each of the following. Do not copy examples from the book or any other source. Try to be creative with your examples to demonstrate that you invented them yourself.

Example 1: Define a function that takes an argument. Call the function. Identify what code is the argument and what code is the parameter.

Example 2: Call your function from Example 1 three times with different kinds of arguments: a value, a variable, and an expression. Identify which kind of argument is which. 

Example 3: Create a function with a local variable. Show what happens when you try to use that variable outside the function. Explain the results.

Example 4: Create a function that takes an argument. Give the function parameter a unique name. Show what happens when you try to use that parameter name outside the function. Explain the results.

Example 5: Show what happens when a variable defined outside a function has the same name as a local variable inside a function. Explain what happens to the value of each variable as the program runs.