Learning Journal Unit 1

Every week in UNIV 1001, you will complete a Learning Journal assignment. In this class, your Learning Journals are composed of two parts - a reflection topic, and an APA exercise. Your reflection topic should be at least 300 words but no more than 500 words.

Reflection Topic: College Success

 Write about what college success means to you. How will you define success, and what strategies will you use to achieve success? Be sure to be specific.
Do you have any concerns or worries about how you will manage your course assignments or expectations? Your journal entry will only be seen by you and your instructor, so feel free to share any questions and worries you have.

APA Exercise:

Every week in your learning journal for Online Education Strategies, you will practice APA format. This week, you are going to learn how to cite an e-book. These are available in the UoPeople library. Start by going to the library and find an e-book on a topic you’re interested in. Then, complete the following exercise:

What is the title of the book?
Who is the author (or who are the authors)?
What year was the book published?
What is the URL of the book?

Using the information from #1-4, write the APA reference for the book you found. The reference goes at the end of your work, after all of your writing is finished.

Now, let’s write the in-text citation, to use at the end of a sentence you are writing. In-text citations are always (Author, Year). Using the information from #5, write the APA in-text citation for the book you found.
Refer to the UoPeople APA Tutorials in the LRC for help in APA citations.

Grading:

Reflection Activity:

7 points - Journal clearly responds to all aspects of the prompt. Writing is clear, effective, and concise, and uses critical thinking to support claims.

6 points - Responds to all aspects of the prompt, but topic engagement could be more effective, and arguments could be better supported with critical thinking.

4 points - Responds to topic, but response is shallow, portions of topic may be missing, and critical thinking is minimal.

2 points - Response is minimally related to topic prompt, but significant portions of topic are unanswered, or answer is shallow with no critical thinking.

1 points - Response is minimal or off-topic.

0 points - No response.

APA Exercise:

3 points - APA exercise is complete and accurate.

2 points - APA exercise is complete with 1-2 errors.

1 points - APA exercise is complete with 3 or more errors, or is incomplete.

0 points - APA exercise not attempted.
