Learning Journal Unit 3

Reflection Topic: Netiquette, peer assessment, and feedback

Please reflect and answer the following:

We know that using netiquette online is important, but why? What are the consequences of bad netiquette in the classroom? In your response, be sure to reflect on how it feels to be addressed with bad netiquette, and how you think others feel.

How does netiquette relate to peer assessment?

Why is it important to use good manners when leaving feedback?

How do you feel about the feedback you received this week?

What about the feedback you gave?

Your reflection part of the Learning Journal should have a minimum of 300 words, but not more than 600 words.

APA Exercise:

Every week in your learning journal for Online Education Strategies, you will practice APA format. This week, you are going to learn how to cite a journal article. These are available in the UoPeople library. Start by going to the library and find a journal article on a topic you’re interested in find a journal article on a topic you’re interested in. Then, complete the following exercise:

What is the title of the article?

Who is the author (or who are the authors)?

What year was the article published?

What is the title of the journal?

What is the Volume number, Issue number, and page numbers?

If the article has a DOI number, what is the DOI? If it does not, what is the URL of the journal’s home page?

Using the information from #1-6, write the APA reference for the journal article you found. The reference goes at the end of your work, after all of your writing is finished.

Now, let’s write the in-text citation, to use at the end of a sentence you are writing. In-text citations are always (Author, Year). Using the information from #7, write the APA in-text citation for the book you found.

Note: If you are struggling, try reviewing the UoPeople APA tutorials.

Grading:

Reflection Activity:

7 points - Journal clearly responds to all aspects of the prompt. Writing is clear, effective, and concise, and uses critical thinking to support claims.

6 points - Responds to all aspects of the prompt, but topic engagement could be more effective, and arguments could be better supported with critical thinking.

4 points - Responds to topic, but response is shallow, portions of topic may be missing, and critical thinking is minimal.

2 points - Response is minimally related to topic prompt, but significant portions of topic are unanswered, or answer is shallow with no critical thinking.

1 points - Response is minimal or off-topic.

0 points - No response.

APA Exercise:

3 points - APA exercise is complete and accurate.

2 points - APA exercise is complete with 1-2 errors.

1 points - APA exercise is complete with 3 or more errors, or is incomplete.

0 points - APA exercise not attempted.