Learning Journal Unit 2

Reflection Topic:

Here is an opportunity to practice your peer assessment skills. While this assignment is fictitious (fabricated), imagine that the following is a class assignment from a peer student. After you read the students assignment, please assess the student’s work using the assessment criteria. You can fill it out and then copy and paste it into the Learning Journal. 

Download the Unit 2 – Fictitious Student Assignment. Read the directions for the assignment that your peer was supposed to follow so you can assess that the student understood the directions completely.

Read the “Submitted Assignment” completed by your fictitious peer.

Download the Fictitious Peer Assessment Criteria document. Review the grading/assessment criteria, making sure that you understand what criteria you are to grade/assess for this peers assignment.

Grade/assess the assignment using the assessment form. Make sure that you provide feedback to support the grade/assessment that you have given to your peer - you should write at least 1-2 sentences for each aspect. This includes an overall feedback comment at the end.

You will ONLY submit the assessment grading and feedback information in the Learning Journal, which is in the assessment criteria form.

APA Exercise:

Every week in your learning journal for Online Education Strategies, you will practice APA format. This week, you are going to learn how to cite a webpage. Find a webpage related to this week’s peer review exercise on water pollution. Then, complete the following exercise:

What is the title of the webpage?

Who is the author (or who are the authors)? Note: an author can also be an organization. The Center for Disease Control is an example of an organization that is the author of a webpage.

What year was the webpage published? Note: if there is no date, you can write “n.d.” instead.

What is the URL of the webpage?

Using the information from #1-4, write the APA reference for the webpage you found. The reference goes at the end of your work, after all of your writing is finished.

Now, let’s write the in-text citation, to use at the end of a sentence you are writing. In-text citations are always (Author, Year). Using the information from #5, write the APA in-text citation for the webpage you found.
Note: If you are struggling, try reviewing the UoPeople APA tutorials.
