Written Assignment Unit 7

As you read about in the textbook this week, goal-setting is an important strategy to manage your time and stay on track with your education. Reflect on the importance of goal-setting, and answer the following questions:

Briefly, share a time when you set a goal and did not accomplish it,
and then share a time when you set a goal and successfully achieved it.
Why weren’t you successful in your first example?
Why were you successful in your second example?
Why does effective goal-setting help us achieve goals?
What are the characteristics of good goals?
Based on your answer to questions 1 and 2, set three goals: one short-term, one mid-term, and one long-term.

Written Assignment Requirements:

Your written assignment should be submitted in a Word document (or compatible program - not that .pages is not an acceptable file format) and should be at least 1-2 pages in length (but not more than 4 pages), double-spaced with 1-inch margins, and written in Times New Roman size 12 font.

You should provide a word count at the end of your written assignment.

Cite any reference(s) you use in the preparation of your essay using proper APA format.
For help with APA citations, please refer to the UoPeople APA Tutorials in the LRC.

Written Assignment Peer Assessment:

In the unit following the submission of your written assignment, you will peer assess three (3) of your classmates’ assignments according to the instructions found in the Assessment Form. During this peer assessment period, you are expected to provide details in the feedback section of the Assessment Form, indicating why you awarded the grade that you did to your peer. The written assignment grade is comprised of a combination of your submission (90%) and your peer assessments (10%).

Written Assignment Peer Assessment Rubric:

For this assignment, your peers will be evaluating your work with the following criteria.

Did the student share a time when they did not successfully achieve a goal?
Did the student share a time when they successfully achieved a goal?
Did the student explain why they were unsuccessful for their first goal?
Did the student explain why they were successful for their second goal?
Did the student explain why effective goal-setting helps achieve goals?
Did the student describe the characteristics of effective goals?
Did the student set a short-term goal?
Did the student set a mid-term goal?
Did the student set a long-term goal?

Did the student’s paper include these formatting elements:

at least 1-2 pages in length
double-spaced
1-inch margins
written in Times New Roman 12 font
include a word count