Learning Journal Unit 3

Reflection Topic: Learning Styles

Determining your learning style can be both beneficial and fun.  Go to the VARK website and learn about the four major learning styles: Visual, Aural (Auditory), Read/Write and Kinesthetic. Then take the VARK Questionnaire. Once you know your style(s) read about the different learning strategies here:

Visual Strategies
Aural Strategies
Read/Write Strategies
Kinesthetic Strategies

Once you have completed the readings, answer these questions: 

Was this your first time taking this type of inventory?

If no, did your results change from the last time?

If so, did your learning style results surprise you?

Now that you have identified your learning style, how will you apply this knowledge to your studying?

Reflect on the studying strategies you have used previously. Have your study habits been effective?

Why or why not?

What studying strategies from this week do you think will be helpful?

Be sure that your Learning Journal entry is a minimum of 300 words (but not more than 500 words).

APA Exercise:

Every week in your learning journal for Online Education Strategies, you will practice APA format. For the past 4 weeks, we have practiced how to cite and reference different kinds materials – books, articles, website, and videos. While there are other kinds of materials that can be cited and referenced, most will be very similar to what you have already learned.

Last week, we started focusing on how to correctly quote and how to correctly paraphrase. This week, we will continue this work. Go back to the e-book you found for our Week 1 APA exercise. Then, complete the following exercise:

What was the full reference for the e-book you found for the Week 1 APA exercise? (If your instructor gave you feedback on how to correct your reference, be sure to write the correct reference this week).

What was the in-text citation for the e-book you found for the Week 1 APA exercise? (If your instructor gave you feedback on how to correct your citation, be sure to write the correct citation this week).

Find a paragraph in your e-book, and copy and paste it here.

Select a section from #3, and using the APA rule for short quotations, put the section in quotation marks while adding an APA in-text citation at the end.

Re-read the section from #3, and re-write it in your own words while adding an APA in-text citation at the end. (This is called paraphrasing).

Note: If you are struggling, try reviewing the UoPeople APA tutorials in the LRC.

Grading:

Reflection Activity:

7 points - Journal clearly responds to all aspects of the prompt. Writing is clear, effective, and concise, and uses critical thinking to support claims.

6 points - Responds to all aspects of the prompt, but topic engagement could be more effective, and arguments could be better supported with critical thinking.

4 points - Responds to topic, but response is shallow, portions of topic may be missing, and critical thinking is minimal.

2 points - Response is minimally related to topic prompt, but significant portions of topic are unanswered, or answer is shallow with no critical thinking.

1 points - Response is minimal or off-topic.

0 points - No response.

APA Exercise:

3 points - APA exercise is complete and accurate.

2 points - APA exercise is complete with 1-2 errors.

1 points - APA exercise is complete with 3 or more errors, or is incomplete.

0 points - APA exercise not attempted.