Calculus – Math 1211: Learning Materials
Get Ready For Your College Courses
To best prepare for your future studies, please review the below preparation resources. We encourage you to use the time before starting your first term, to get a taste of the topics of your upcoming courses. There’s no better time to start than now! Good luck with your studies!

 

Learn Calculus- MATH 1211
Course Overview

This 3-credit course provides an interdisciplinary introduction to the core concepts of differential calculus, covering a wide range of topics. Content includes both applications and theory of differential calculus leading to an introduction of The Fundamental Theorem of Calculus. Learners will continue to refine independent study skills, problem-solving, logically correct and mathematically precise writing and thinking, and their ability to use geometric, symbolic and analytic formats in presenting solutions to both abstract and real world applications. Class activities will include lecture/discussion as well as tests and quizzes.

 

Preparation Resources
Strang, G. (1991). Calculus. Wellesley, MA: Wellesley-Cambridge Press. Available online at https://ocw.mit.edu/resources/res-18-001-calculus-online-textbook-spring-2005/textbook/

 

Calculus- MATH 1211 -Course Schedule and Topics:
This course will cover the following topics in eight learning sessions, with one Unit per week. The Final Exam will take place during Week/Unit 9 (UoPeople time).

 

Week 1: Unit 1 – Calculus Introduction: Velocity, Circular Motion, Trigonometric Functions

 

Week 2: Unit 2 – Limits and Derivatives: Rates of Change and Limits and the Derivative of a Function

 

Week 3: Unit 3 – Derivative Rules, Derivatives of Trigonometric Functions, and Limits and Continuity

 

Week 4: Unit 4 – Applications of Derivatives, Extreme Values of Functions, and the Mean Value Theorem

 

Week 5: Unit 5 – The Chain Rule and Implicit Differentiation

 

Week 6: Unit 6 – Exponential and Logarithmic Functions

 

Week 7: Unit 7 – Newton’s Method and the Integral and Antiderivative

 

Week 8: Unit 8 – More on the Integral, Definite Integrals, and Fundamental Theorem of Calculus

 

Week 9: Unit 9 – Course Review and Final Exam